this lecture is about the textual
representation in this lecture we're
going to discuss textual representation
and discuss how natural angle processing
can allow us to represent text in many
different ways let's take a look at this
example sentence again we can represent
this sentence in many different ways
first we can always represent in such a
sentence as a string of characters this
is true for all the languages when we
store them in the computer when we store
natural language the sentence as a
string of characters we have perhaps the
most general way of representing text
since we always use this approach to
represent any text data but
unfortunately using such a
representation would not help us to
semantic analysis which is often needed
for many applications of text mining the
reason is because we're not even
recognizing words so as a stream we're
going to keep all the spaces and these
asking symbols we can perhaps count
how what's the most frequent character
in English text or the correlation
between those characters but we can't
really analyze the semantics yet this is
the most general way of representing
text because we can use this to
represent any natural language text if
we try to do a little bit more natural
language processing by doing water
segmentation then we can obtain a
representation of the same text but in
the form of a sequence of words so here
we see that we can identify words like a
dog is chasing etc now with this
replenishing we certainly can do a lot
of things and this is mainly because
words are the basic units of human
communication in natural remedy so they
are very powerful
by identifying words we can for example
easily count what are the most frequent
words in this document or in the whole
collection etc and these words can be
used to form topics when we combine
related words together and some words
are positive some words are negative so
we can also do sentiment analysis so
representing text data as a sequence of
words opens wrapped a lot of interesting
analysis possibilities however this
level of representation is slightly less
general than string of characters
because in some languages such as
Chinese it's not actually not that easy
to identify all the world batteries
because in such a language you see text
as a sequence of characters with with no
space in between so you have to rely on
some special techniques to identify
words in such a language of course then
we might make mistakes in segmenting
words so the sequence of words
representation is not as robust as a
string of characters but in English it's
very easy to obtain this level of
representation so we can do that all the
time now if we go further to do
naturally processing we can add a part
of speech tags now once we do that we
can count for example the most frequent
nouns or what kind of nouns are
associated with what kind of verbs etc
so this opens up a little bit more
interesting opportunities for further
analysis note that I use a plus sign
because by representing text as a
sequence of part of speech tags
we don't necessary replace the original
water sequence written dish instead we
add this as an additional way of
representing text data so that now the
data is represented as both the sequence
of words and the sequence of part of
speech tags this enriches a
representation of text data and thus
also enables more interesting analysis
if we go further then we'll be pausing
the sentence for thinning to obtain a
syntactic structure now this of course
further open up more interesting
analysis of for example the writing
styles or correcting grammar mistakes if
we could put a call further for semantic
analysis then we might be able to
recognize dog as an animal and we also
can recognize a boy as a person and
playground as a location and we can
further analyze their relations for
example dog is chasing the boy and boys
on the playground now this is to add
more entities and relations through
entity relation regulation at this level
then we can do even more interesting
things for example now we can counter
easily the most frequent person that's
mentioning this whole collection of news
articles or whenever you mention this
person you also tend to see mention of
another person etc so this is very
useful representation and it's also
related to the knowledge graph that some
of you may have heard of that Google is
doing as a more cinematic way of
representing text data however it's also
less robust than sequence of words or
even syntactic analysis because it's not
always easy to identify all the entities
with the right types and we might make
mistakes and relations are even harder
to find and we might make mistakes so
this makes this level of representation
less robust yet it's very useful now if
we move further to logical
representation then we'll have
predicates and even inference rules and
with the inference inference rules we
can infer interesting derived effects
from the text so that's very useful but
unfortunately and this level of
repetition is even less robust and we
can make mistakes and we can't do that
all the time for all kinds of sentences
and finally speech acts would add a yet
another level of recognition of the
intent of saying this sentence so in
this case it might be a request so
knowing that would allow us to you know
analyze more even more interesting
things about the observer or the author
of the sentence you know what's the
intention of saying that what scenarios
what kind of actions will be made so
this is another level of analysis that
would be very interesting so this
picture shows that if we move down we
generally see more sophisticated natural
diamond processing techniques to be used
and unfortunately such techniques would
require more human effort and they are
less accurate that means there are
mistakes so if we analyze text there are
at the levels that are representing
deeper analysis of language then we have
to tolerate the errors so that also
means it's still necessary to combine
such deep analysis with zero analysis
based on for example sequence of words
on the right side you see the arrow
points down to indicate that as we go
down without representation
text is closer to knowledge
representation in our mind and needed
for solving a lot of problems now this
is desirable because as we can represent
text at the level of knowledge we can
easily extract the knowledge that's the
purpose of text mining so there is a
trade-off here between doing deep
analysis that might have errors but
would give us direct knowledge that can
be extracted from this and doing shallow
analysis which is more robust but
wouldn't actually give us the necessary
the deeper representation of knowledge I
should also say that there are generated
by humans and are meant to be consumed
by humans so as a result in text data
analysis text mining humans play a very
important role they are always in the
loop meaning that we should optimize the
collaboration of humans and computers so
in that sense it's okay that computers
may not be able to have a completely
accurate representation of text data and
the patterns that are extracted from
text data can be interpreted by humans
and the humans can guide the computers
to do more accurate analysis by
annotating more data by providing
features to guide the machine learning
programs to make them work more
effectively
you